Newsletters: add 207 (2022-07-06) (#802)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2022-07-06-newsletter.md

  demand for block space.   That demand must generate transaction
  fees to pay for Proof of Work (PoW) in excess of what an attacker
  would be willing to purchase to disrupt Bitcoin users.  Developer
  Peter Todd [pointed out][todd subsidy] that this dependency could be
  removed if the Bitcoin protocol were modified to include a perpetual
  subsidy.  Several respondents indicated that they thought the system
  is better off without a perpetual subsidy, while others looked for
  alternatives or apparent equivalencies such as demurrage.

    As of this writing, the thread appears to consist of casual
    conversation rather than advocacy for any particular proposal to
    change Bitcoin in the near future.

- **Updated alternative to BIP47 reusable payment codes:** developer
  Alfred Hodler [posted][hodler new codes] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing
  list a proposal for an alternative to [BIP47][] that attempts to
  address some of the issues found during its use in production.  BIP47
  allows Alice to publish a payment code that anyone can use in
  combination with their own keys to create private addresses for Alice
  that only they and Alice will know, allowing anyone to reuse the

>   public payment code without engaging in privacy-harming [address

Reviewer: Well, the payments don't reuse addresses, but the notification transactions do.

  reuse][topic output linking].  One of the problems with BIP47 is that
  the first transaction between a spender (e.g. Bob) and Alice may leak
  to block chain analysis organizations that Bob wants to pay Alice.

    Hodler's scheme would be less likely to leak this information but it
    would increase the amount of data a client implementing the protocol
    would need to learn from the block chain, making it less suitable

>     for light clients.  Ruben Somsen suggested several alternatives

Reviewer: I read this at first as if it suggested that Ruben invented all of the following and stumbled on the comma before Robin Linus. I only grokked what I understand to be the intended meaning on the third glance. Maybe:

```suggestion
    for light clients.  Ruben Somsen indicated several alternatives
```

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

FIXME:harding to update Tuesday

- LDK

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #24836][] add RPC (-regtest only) for testing package policy FIXME:glozow

- [Bitcoin Core #22558][] psbt: Taproot fields for PSBT FIXME:bitschmidty

- [Core Lightning #5281][] adds support for specifying the `log-file`
  configuration option multiple times to write to multiple log files.

- [LDK #1555][] updates its pathfinding code to slightly prefer routing
  through channels which advertise that they won't accept payments

>   larger than half the amount of money committed to the channel.  This

Reviewer: I first understood this to mean that the channel will limit to a total of half being in pending forwards in either direction. However, looking at the code, it seems to me that LDK discourages channels that allow a single HTLC to use _half or more_ of the capacity. (Unless `htlc_maximum_msat` pertains to the total rather than a single HTLC, which [doesn't seem to be the case](https://github.com/lnbook/lnbook/blob/ece69d5c2ac8116ef83c1826bd43bd4b33c74dca/10_onion_routing.asciidoc).)

To achieve the privacy benefit you mention, it seems to me that instead `max_htlc_value_in_flight_msat` would have to be restricted to less than half in both directions, so I'm a bit confused. Otherwise they could just create multiple HTLCs? :thinking:

Author: From my understanding:

- `max_htlc_value_in_flight_msat` (defined in BOLT2) is a peer-level attribute that allows Alice to tell her channel partner Bob that she won't accept more then *n* msats aggregated across all pending HTLCs.
- `htlc_maximum_msat` (defined in BOLT7) is a gossiped channel attribute that must be set to less than or equal to `max_htlc_value_in_flight_msat` and is (as you say) that max per HTLC

A node that's pathfinding based on public gossip won't know the `in_flight_msat` for any channels besides its direct peers, so it can't actually use that value directly---but it may be able to use `htlc_maximum_msat` as a reasonable proxy.  It certainly seems *possible* that someone could set `in_flight_msat` to ~100% of channel capacity but `htlc_maximum_msat` to 50% of capacity, but it perhaps seems more likely to LN devs that any node limiting `htlc_maximum_msat` to 50% or less of capacity has also limited `in_flight_msat` to 50% or less.

Does that make sense?  If not, I suggest we drop this description from this week's newsletter until I have a chance to talk to an LDK dev for clarification.

Author: Also, thanks so much for examining this in detail!

Reviewer: My pleasure. Just to clarify in case that got dropped under the table, the 50% is part of the penalized range. :)

I could ping an LDK dev to take a look. Lemme see if I can get a hold of someone.

Reviewer: The observation that `max_htlc_value_in_flight_msat` is not a gossiped value certainly makes evaluating `htlc_maximum_msat` more relatable. One of the involved devs said they'll be able to take a look later today.

Author: Updated, thanks!

  is believed to provide a slight privacy improvement by limiting the
  amount of balance information a third party can discover by probing a
  channel (sending a payment ([HTLC][topic htlc]) they don't intend to
  settle).  If a set of payments up to the total amount of a channel can
  be sent, then a prober can learn nearly the exact balance of the
  channel by just trying different sets of payments until all parts are
  accepted.  But, if the set of payments which can be sent is limited to
  half the channel balance, it's harder for the prober to determine
  whether payments are being rejected because of a lack of funds on one
  side of the channel or because of the advertised limit (the
  `max_htlc_in_flight` limit).

- [LDK #1550][] provides the ability for users to add a list of nodes to
  a local banlist which will prevent pathfinding from routing payments
  through those nodes.

- [LND #6592][] adds a new `requiredreserve` RPC to the wallet subserver
  that prints the number of satoshis the wallet is reserving in UTXOs it
  unilaterally controls to fee bump [anchor outputs][topic anchor
  outputs] if necessary.  An additional `--additionalChannels` parameter

>   to the RPC, which takes a integer argument, reports the number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to the RPC, which takes an integer argument, reports the number of
```

  the first transaction between a spender (e.g. Bob) and Alice may leak
  to block chain analysis organizations that Bob wants to pay Alice.

    Hodler's scheme would be less likely to leak this information but it
    would increase the amount of data a client implementing the protocol
    would need to learn from the block chain, making it less suitable
    for light clients.  Ruben Somsen suggested several alternatives
    that could also be investigated, including Somsen's silent
    payments idea (see [Newsletter #194][news194 silent payments]),
    Robin Linus's [2022 stealth addresses][] idea, and [previous
    discussion][prauge bip47] posted to the mailing list about improving
    upon BIP47.

- **Announcing splices:** in a [PR][bolts #1004] and a
  [discussion][osuntokun splice] on the Lightning-Dev mailing list,
  developers discussed the best way to communicate that a channel that
  was seemingly being closed onchain was in fact a [splice][topic
  splicing] where funds were being added to the channel or removed from
  it.

    One proposal was for nodes to simply not consider a channel closed
    until some amount of time after its onchain closing transaction was

>     seen.  This would give time for he announcement of the new

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    seen.  This would give time for the announcement of the new
```

    still attempt to route payments through the seemingly-closed
    channel, as a spliced channel would still be able to forward
    payments with full LN security even before its new channel open
    transaction received a suitable number of confirmations.

    Another proposal was to include a signal onchain as part of the
    closing transaction that a splice was in progress, telling nodes
    that they could continue trying to forward payments through it.

    The discussion had not come to a clear conclusion at the time this
    summary was being written.

- **Fundamental fee-collection strategies for LN forwarding nodes:**
  developer ZmnSCPxj [summarized][zmnscpxj forwarding] three strategies
  LN forwarding nodes can use in collecting fees for routing payments
  (including the strategy of not collecting fees).  ZmnSCPxj then
  analyzes possible outcomes of the different strategies.  This seems
  related to his proposal for nodes to use routing fees to improve
  payment success rates, see [Newsletter #204][news204 fee signal],
  which also received significant [additional commentary][towns fee
  signal] in the past week from Anthony Towns.

> - **Onion message rate limiting:** Bastian Teinturier

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/t-bast/
```suggestion
- **Onion message rate limiting:** Bastien Teinturier
```

  [posted][teinturier rate limit] a summary of an idea he attributes to
  Rusty Russell for rate limiting [onion messages][topic onion
  messages].  The proposal has each node store just an extra 32 bytes of
  information for each of their peers that allows them to

>   probabalistically punish peers who send too much traffic.  The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  probabilistically punish peers who send too much traffic.  The
```

>   suggested penalty is to just half the rate limit for a peer relaying

Reviewer 2: (I think we're supposed to use "halve" as the verb form, but very sorry if I'm just nitpicking)
```suggestion
  suggested penalty is to just halve the rate limit for a peer relaying
```

  help L2 protocol and application developers who intend to use
  package relay in the future test their transactions against the
  Bitcoin Core default package policy.  The current policy is outlined
  [here][packages doc]. This RPC can also be used to test future
  additions and changes, such as the proposed package RBF rules.

- [Bitcoin Core #22558][] psbt: Taproot fields for PSBT FIXME:bitschmidty

- [Core Lightning #5281][] adds support for specifying the `log-file`
  configuration option multiple times to write to multiple log files.

- [LDK #1555][] updates its pathfinding code to slightly prefer routing
  through channels which advertise that they won't accept payments
  larger than half the amount of money committed to the channel.  This
  is believed to provide a slight privacy improvement by limiting the
  amount of balance information a third party can discover by probing a
  channel (sending a payment ([HTLC][topic htlc]) they don't intend to
  settle).  If a set of payments up to the total amount of a channel can
  be sent, then a prober can learn nearly the exact balance of the
  channel by just trying different sets of payments until all parts are

>   accepted.  But, if the set of payments which can be sent is limited to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  accepted.  However, if the set of payments that can be sent is limited to
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #207'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2022/07/06/
name: 2022-07-06-newsletter
slug: 2022-07-06-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## News

- **Long-term block reward funding:** in a thread on the Bitcoin-Dev
  mailing list ostensibly about [covenants][topic covenants], it was
  noted that Bitcoin's long term security currently depends on
  demand for block space.   That demand must generate transaction
  fees to pay for Proof of Work (PoW) in excess of what an attacker
  would be willing to purchase to disrupt Bitcoin users.  Developer
  Peter Todd [pointed out][todd subsidy] that this dependency could be
  removed if the Bitcoin protocol were modified to include a perpetual
  subsidy.  Several respondents indicated that they thought the system
  is better off without a perpetual subsidy, while others looked for

>   alternatives or apparent equivalencies such as demurrage.

Reviewer 3: It would be nice to have a short summary of "demurrage" or helpful ML (or other) link.

    of his previous proposal for preventing abuse of onion messages by
    charging for data relay, see [Newsletter #190][news190 onion pay].
    Replies from other developers as of this writing seemed to indicate
    they first try the lightweight rate limiting to see if it works
    before adding the complexity of payments for onion messages.

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

FIXME:harding to update Tuesday

- LDK

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #24836][] adds a regtest-only RPC, `submitpackage` to
  help L2 protocol and application developers who intend to use

>   package relay in the future test their transactions against the

Reviewer 3: Suggest link to /en/topics/package-relay/ topic

  larger than half the amount of money committed to the channel.  This
  is believed to provide a slight privacy improvement by limiting the
  amount of balance information a third party can discover by probing a
  channel (sending a payment ([HTLC][topic htlc]) they don't intend to
  settle).  If a set of payments up to the total amount of a channel can
  be sent, then a prober can learn nearly the exact balance of the
  channel by just trying different sets of payments until all parts are
  accepted.  But, if the set of payments which can be sent is limited to
  half the channel balance, it's harder for the prober to determine
  whether payments are being rejected because of a lack of funds on one
  side of the channel or because of the advertised limit (the
  `max_htlc_in_flight` limit).

- [LDK #1550][] provides the ability for users to add a list of nodes to
  a local banlist which will prevent pathfinding from routing payments
  through those nodes.

- [LND #6592][] adds a new `requiredreserve` RPC to the wallet subserver
  that prints the number of satoshis the wallet is reserving in UTXOs it
  unilaterally controls to fee bump [anchor outputs][topic anchor

>   outputs] if necessary.  An additional `--additionalChannels` parameter

Reviewer 3: Suggesting for clarity:

An additional `--additionalChannels` RPC parameter, which takes a integer argument...

  to the RPC, which takes a integer argument, reports the number of
  satoshis the wallet will reserve if that number of additional channels
  are opened.

- [Rust Bitcoin #1024][] adds additional code for helping developers

>   work around the `SIGHASH_SINGLE` "bug" where the Bitcoin protocol

Reviewer 3: Could link bug to https://www.coinspect.com/capture-coins-challenge-1-sighashsingle/ or similar?
